feat: eth linking (#215)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/03_account_linking/01_link.md

Reviewer: We don't mention anywhere in this file about Ethereum?

Author: Oh yeah that's a huge oversight. 😱

Author: [05d693d](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/docs/pull/215/commits/05d693d10fee077822ce7e281a754ac4a946adec)

---

import TsJsBlock from '@site/src/components/TsJsBlock';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import SubAccLink from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/linking/01_sub_link.ts';
import EthAccLink from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/linking/01_eth_link.ts';
import EthWeb3AccLink from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/linking/01_eth_link_web3js.ts';
import SenderLink from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/linking/02_sender_link.ts';

Sometimes there is the need to link a DID to an account publicly.
The link makes it possible to lookup a DID for an account.
The other directions is also possible.
With a DID you can lookup a list of linked account.

Linking accounts can be useful when your account should have an identity.
E.g. as a collator, you might want to provide some public information so that delegator can better decide who earned their stake.

An account can be linked to a DID in one of two ways.

> Either the account that sends the transaction links itself to the DID or the sender is unrelated to the DID and a third account is linked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Either the account that sends the transaction links itself to the DID, or the sender is unrelated to the DID and a third account is linked.
```

> In that case a challenge needs to be signed with the third account, to proof ownership.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the latter case, a challenge needs to be signed with the third account, to prove ownership.
```

> The second option is useful in cases where the account that should be linked doesn't own KILT tokens or the transaction is paid for by a third party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second option is useful in cases where the account that should be linked doesn't own KILT tokens and the transaction is paid for by a third party.
```

:::warning Don't use linked accounts for asset transfers

Don't use these linked accounts for asset transfers.
Since these accounts are not limited to KILT accounts, but can be used on any chain, the recipient might not be able to access the transferred asset on other chains.

> When a link to an account on a different substrate chain is created, this account might only be usable on this specific chain.

Reviewer: Polkadot over Substrate perhaps?

```suggestion
When a link to an account on a different Polkadot chain is created, this account might only be usable on this specific chain.
```

If you want transfer assets to a DID have a look at [the asset transfer service endpoint](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/spec-KiltTransferAssetRecipientV1).

:::

## Linking the sender to a DID

Link the sender of the transaction to the DID.
The sender will provide the deposit and pay the fees.

> He will also be linked to the DID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They will also be linked to the DID.
```

<TsJsBlock>
  {SenderLink}
</TsJsBlock>

## Linking an account to a DID

Link another account to the DID.
The sender will provide the deposit and pay the fees, but will not be linked to the DID in any way.

> The account that should be linked must sign a challenge to proof that the account agrees to be linked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The account that should be linked must sign a challenge to prove that the account agrees to be linked.
```

> The proof contains the DID that the account will be linked to and an expiration date (as a blocknumber), to prevent replay attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proof contains the DID that the account will be linked to and an expiration date (in terms of blocks), to prevent replay attacks.
```

An account can be linked to a DID in one of two ways.
Either the account that sends the transaction links itself to the DID, or the sender is unrelated to the DID and a third account is linked.
In the latter case, a challenge needs to be signed using the third account, to prove ownership.

The second option is useful in cases where the account that should be linked doesn't own KILT tokens and the transaction is paid for by a third party.

> This option also allows to link accounts schemas that are not native to the Spiritnet Blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option also allows to link account schemes that are not native to the Spiritnet Blockchain.
```

> Right now the only other address scheme supported are ethereum account.

Reviewer: Not sure if _are_ ethereum or _is_ ethereum is actually the right one here.

```suggestion
Right now the only other address scheme supported are ethereum accounts.
```

The proof contains the DID that the account will be linked to and an expiration date (in terms of blocks), to prevent replay attacks.
The proof will only be valid up until the blocknumber is reached.

> With this option you can link addresses that are supported by the Spiritnet blockchain (sr25519, ed25519, ecdsa), but also ethereum addresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this option you can link addresses that are supported by the Spiritnet blockchain (Sr25519, Ed25519, Ecdsa), but also ethereum addresses.
```
